.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii cli.1
.\"
.TH CLI 1 "October 2009" "CLI 1.0.0"
.SH NAME
cli \- command line interface compiler for C++
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.B cli
.B [
.I options
.B ]
.I file
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.B cli
generates C++ implementation for command line interface defined in the CLI
language. For an input file in the form
.B name.cli
the following C++ files are generated:
.B name.hxx
(header file),
.B name.ixx
(inline file, generated unless the
.B --suppress-inline
option is specified), and
.B name.cxx (source file).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\"--------------------------------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\--help\fR"
Print usage information and exit.

.IP "\fB\--version\fR"
Print version and exit.

.IP "\fB\--output-dir\fR | \fB\-o \fIdir\fR"
Write generated files to
.I dir
instead of the current directory.

.IP "\fB\--suppress-inline\fR"
Generate all functions non-inline. By default simple functions are made
inline. This option suppresses creation of the inline file.

.IP "\fB\--hxx-suffix \fIsuffix\fR"
Use the provided
.I suffix
instead of the default
.B .hxx
to construct the name of the generated header file.

.IP "\fB\--ixx-suffix \fIsuffix\fR"
Use the provided
.I suffix
instead of the default
.B .ixx
to construct the name of the generated inline file.

.IP "\fB\--cxx-suffix \fIsuffix\fR"
Use the provided
.I suffix
instead of the default
.B .cxx
to construct the name of the generated source file.

.IP "\fB\--option-prefix \fIprefix\fR"
Use the provided
.I prefix
instead of the default
.B -
as an option prefix. Unknown command line arguments that start with this
prefix are treated as unknown options. If you set the option prefix to the
empty value, then all the unknown command line arguments will be treated as
program arguments.

.IP "\fB\--option-separator \fIseparator\fR"
Use the provided
.I separator
instead of the default
.B --
as an optional separator between options and arguments. All command line
arguments that are parsed after this separator are treated as program
arguments. Set the option separator to the empty value if you don't want
this functionality.

.IP "\fB\--include-with-brackets\fR"
Use angle brackets (<>) instead of quotes ("") in generated
.B #include
directives.

.IP "\fB\--include-prefix \fIprefix\fR"
Add
.I prefix
to generated
.B #include
directive paths.

.IP "\fB\--guard-prefix \fIprefix\fR"
Add
.I prefix
to generated header inclusion guards. The prefix is transformed to upper
case and characters that are illegal in a preprocessor macro name are
replaced with underscores.

.IP "\fB\--reserved-name \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIrep\fR]"
Add
.I name
to the list of names that should not be used as identifiers. The name
can optionally be followed by
.B =
and the replacement name that should be used instead. All C++ keywords
are already in this list.

.\"
.\" DIAGNOSTICS
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the input file is not a valid CLI definition,
.B cli
will issue diagnostic messages to
.B STDERR
and exit with non-zero exit code.
.\"
.\" BUGS
.\"
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to the cli-users@codesynthesis.com mailing list.
.\"
.\" COPYRIGHT
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2009 Code Synthesis Tools CC.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the MIT License. Copy of this license can be obtained from
http://www.codesynthesis.com/licenses/mit.txt
